---
layout: post
title:  "Lab 2: KEY"
date:   2025-01-22
assigned: 2025-01-16
due: 2025-01-21
canvas-link: https://umich.instructure.com/courses/733396/assignments/2649539
categories: key
---

**Note:** The following examples use the `%` symbol to indicate the prompt.
The text before the prompt indicates the directory, or location of the command prompt.
If you have "moved" your prompt using a command like `cd`,
your responses may be slightly different.
Remember that the location context is all important in this interface!
The commands below assume you start in the `si667-2025` directory.

## Questions to Answer

 1. Imagine that you have opened a window that gives access to the command line. What command would you use to determine your current location (current path address)?
```bash
% pwd
```
_In Windows/DOS, the `cd` command should display your current location._
2. What command would you use to move to another directory or folder?
```bash
% cd
```
3. What command would you use to list the contents of the directory or folder?
```bash
ls
```
_In Windows/DOS, the `dir` command will also list your current directory._
4. You can request a basic list (names of files and directories) and an advanced list (that shows permissions, file size, path, etc)? What command and options would you use to generate the basic list? What commands and options generate the advanced list?
  * _Basic list: `ls`_
  * _Advanced/long list: `ls -l`_
  * _Note that if you provide an argument, which is a path, the command will list the requested directory._
5. Problem: During class, you downloaded and unzipped somecourse files (see [Wk 2 slide no. 54](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1sypWW3IgJmkIY9WFDMWLmuJJIRO5oQfS273oyTYoWPw/edit#slide=id.g2b0fe4c1013_1_19)). If you didn't complete that activity, download the files, unzip them, and keep track of where the files are located. In a command shell window, navigate to the location of those files. Once you are there, print a list of the files in that location. Compare the list of files you see with the list of files listed in the [course GitHub repository]({{ site.course_data_repo_link }}). Can you identify the same files in both locations?
  * _You should see the same files listed in both locations._
6. What have you learned about using the command line? Are there situations or tasks where you imagine this environment to be more (or less) useful than the graphical interface of the Explorer or Finder?
  * Answers will vary. Likely answers would includes elements like replicability, easier to do actions in bulk, speed, and ability to easily reuse data between commands since it operates on the common, text-based interface. Downsides include learning curve, lack of feedback and response in most commands.

## What to Turn In

Turn in this assignment on Canvas: [{{ page.canvas-link }}]({{ page.canvas-link }}).
