---
layout:   post
title:    "Lab 4: KEY"
date:     2025-02-04
assigned: 2025-01-30
due:      2025-02-04
canvas-link: https://umich.instructure.com/courses/733396/assignments/2649541
categories: key
---

This page provides solutions and explanations of the problems for [Lab 4]({% link _labs/2025-01-29-lab-4-file-metadata-1.md %}).

## Problem 1: Embedded Metadata {#problem-1}

**Embedded Metadata.** This exercise is similar to the one demonstrated in class, which looked at the contents of a powerpoint file container. In that demonstration, we "unzipped" a PPTX and took a look at the files. For this exercise, take a look at the DOCX file in the course sample files; you will find a file named `inventory.docx` in the folder named `PKG-legacy-files`. First, open the file using Microsoft Word or a similar document editor; look for the file properties. Can you determine who created the file, and when it was created? Does the creation time match the creation time listed in the file system? Next, "unzip" this `docx` file, and take a look at the results. Answer these questions:

1. What folders and files can you see now?  
_When unzipped into a folder called `docx-unzipped`, the `docx` should have a directory structure like this (7 directories and 12 files):_ 
    ```bash
    % tree docx-unzipped 
    docx-unzipped
    ├── [Content_Types].xml
    ├── _rels
    ├── docProps
    │   ├── app.xml
    │   └── core.xml
    └── word
        ├── _rels
        │   └── document.xml.rels
        ├── document.xml
        ├── fontTable.xml
        ├── media
        │   └── image1.png
        ├── numbering.xml
        ├── settings.xml
        ├── styles.xml
        ├── theme
        │   └── theme1.xml
        └── webSettings.xml

    7 directories, 12 files
    ```
2. When you opened the file in the Word editor, you may have noticed there is an image in the file. Can you find that image? (Hint, it's name is image1.png.) Where is that embedded image stored?  
_The images is stored at `./word/media/iamge1.png` (where the `.` is the directory in which the `docx` was unzipped)._  
3. Can you find the original creation date of the file? Where (what file) contains that creation date, and where is it in the unzipped DOCX structure? (Hint, it's metadata and will be stored in an XML file, once the file is unzipped you can search files in VSCode with Ctrl + F.)  
_Look in `./docProps/core.xml`. There, you should find the XML tag `dcterms:created`. In this tag, you should see a system timestamp that follows ISO 8601 standard format, which indicates that this document was created on October 14, 2015. Oh, by the way, it's DublinCore metadata!! 🎉🎉_
4. Imagine you were a curator tasked with preserving access to this file. What functionalities do you think you would want to preserve? What software might be required to preserve this functionality?  
_This could vary widely, but things to consider are questions like, do you want to preserve the ability to edit or interact with the document? Do you want to preserve elements of look and feel, like line length, font, page layout? Could you just save the text, or is there somethign interesting about the formatting? Does its position within the structure of the course files mean something? Does the name of the file matter?_

## Problem 2: The `file` command {#problem-2}

Use the file command to inspect files. Start by looking through all of the files in the `PKG-text-data` directory.

1. First, determine how many files you're looking at (use `wc`). What is the command? How many files are there?  
_There are twelve files. Yes, you could easily count them one by one, but you can also get a count this way:_
    ```bash
    % ls | wc -l
        12
    ```
2. Create a command to run `file` so that it looks at all of the files in the directory (e.g., with a filter `*`), and so that it outputs information for all of the files in the `PKG-text-data/` directory. The goal is to print file characterization information to the terminal display. Examine the results. These are all "text files" but there are different results. Can you identify different text encodings? What else does the output tell you about the files?  
_Note The box below uses plain `file` and with the `-I` flag, which shows information and a MIME Type. You can reveal the type of content in the file (ASCII text), format (JSON, CSV), often character encoding, and sometimes information about the encoding (long lines, BOM, etc)._
    ```bash
    % file *.*
    2014-01-31_JA-africa.tsv:  ASCII text, with very long lines (413)
    2014-01-31_JA-america.tsv: ASCII text, with very long lines (406)
    2014-02-02_JA-britain.tsv: ASCII text, with very long lines (396)
    201403160_01_text.json:    JSON data
    33504-0.txt:               Unicode text, UTF-8 (with BOM) text
    829-0.txt:                 Unicode text, UTF-8 text
    animals.csv:               CSV text
    doaj-article-sample.txt:   CSV text
    michigan-newspapers.json:  JSON data
    pg1342.txt:                Unicode text, UTF-8 (with BOM) text
    pg514.txt:                 Unicode text, UTF-8 (with BOM) text

    % file -I *.*
    2014-01-31_JA-africa.tsv:  text/plain; charset=us-ascii
    2014-01-31_JA-america.tsv: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
    2014-02-02_JA-britain.tsv: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
    201403160_01_text.json:    application/json; charset=us-ascii
    33504-0.txt:               text/plain; charset=utf-8
    829-0.txt:                 text/plain; charset=utf-8
    animals.csv:               text/csv; charset=us-ascii
    doaj-article-sample.txt:   text/csv; charset=utf-8
    michigan-newspapers.json:  application/json; charset=us-ascii
    pg1342.txt:                text/plain; charset=utf-8
    pg514.txt:                 text/plain; charset=utf-8
    ```
3. Reuse the command you created above and save the output to a file called `text-file-types.txt`.
    ```bash
    % file -I *.* > text-file-types.txt
    ```

## Problem 3: Checksums {#problem-3}

**Create checksums.** Checksums are algorithmically-generated strings that can be useful to track file fixity.

1. To create an md5 checksum, what command do you use?  
_`md5` or `md5sum`._
2. Use the `md5` or `md5sum` command to create checksums for all of the TXT files in the text-data directory. What command would you use?  
    ```bash
    % md5 *.txt
    ```
3. Output the list of checksums to a file called `txt-file-checksums.txt`. Provide the command that you used.
    ```bash
    % md5 *.txt > txt-file-checksums.txt
    ```

## Problem 4 {#problem-4}

In the previous two problems you created checksums and listed file types. Do you think this information would be useful to keep as "preservation desciption information"? Why or why not? What benefit is outputting this information to a file that you might want to keep with the folder if you were going to hang on to it for a while?

Answers in this question should include some discussion of things along these lines:

- how the above might be part of preservation description information (PDI) in the sense of OAIS, so you could mention reference and fixity
- might also mention representation information since things like the text encoding could be important to render the text in future
- useful to save in a file because this is not information that is always stored with the file, it is often stored in the operating system
- one way to do this would be to keep this information along with an inventory of the files in a folder, which essentially acts like an "information package" (again in the sense of OAIS)

## Problem 5 {#problem-5}

Choose one of the sample datasets for Assignment 1 ([view assignment 1 in Canvas](https://umich.instructure.com/courses/733396/assignments/2649533)). Use these questions to make a preliminary analysis using the sorts of tools and questions we've been asking so far:

1. What dataset did you choose? What drew you to this dataset?
2. For this dataset, identify at least one file type that appears to hold data. What is the filetype? How can you find out more about the file type?
3. Try to download one (or more) file that you identified above.
4. Is it easy or difficult to identify the file, to download the file? Is there any information that you might use to demonstrate provenance or authenticity about the file in the access interface? (For example, how big is the file, a hash value, creator, filename, creation/modification date, etc?)
5. Using command line tools (i.e., `file` or siegfried/brunnhilde), can you get detailed technical information about the file? Can you identify MIME types? Can you get basic information like who created the file and when? If you were able to identify any file information in the previous step from the data interface, does this agree with the information you found from this closer inspection of the bitstreams?

_Answers to this problem set will vary depending on the dataset you choose._
